Create security group
(We will use secutity group in the next steps.)

Open the Amazon EC2 console.
Choose Security Groups on the left-hand menu,
Click the Create Security Group tab.
You will see this:
Security Group Name  : Please write a name
Description         : Please write a description
VPC                 : `Default VPC`
Inbound Rules:
    - Type: SSH----> Source: Anywhere
    - Type: HTTP ---> Source: Anywhere
Outbound Rules: Keep it as it is
Tag:
    - Key   : Name
    - Value : Please write value
Click Create Security Group button.
Create Instance
(A simple example for new learners. You can change and improve these settings as you learn.)

Go to AWS console page
Click on EC2
Click on Instances
Click on Launch Instance
On Name and Tags: Write a name
On Application and OS Images (Amazon Machine Image): Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI)
On Instance Type: Choose an Instance Type, (You can choose free tier)
On Key pair (login): You can create a new key pair (You must have a key pair in each region.)
On Network settings: Set the security groups
On Configure Storage, (8 GB is enough for now)
Click on Launch Instance
You created an instance 💪
Create Instance with user data
(Almost same as above)

Go to AWS console page
Click on EC2
Click on Instances
Click on Launch Instance
On Name and Tags: Write a name
On Application and OS Images (Amazon Machine Image): Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI)
On Instance Type: Choose an Instance Type, (You can choose free tier)
On Key pair (login): You can create a new key pair (You must have a key pair in each region.)
On Network settings: Set the security groups
On Configure Storage, (8 GB is enough for now)
Click on the Advanced details at the bottom,
Go to user data,
(With apache) Open the file user_data_for_apache_server.txt in this repository and copy content, or
(With nginx) Open the file user_data_for_nginx.txt in this repository and copy content,
Paste it in user data,
Click on Launch Instance
Connect to your instance (method1)
(We have already created an instance)

Go to AWS console page
Click on EC2
Click on Instances
Select previously created instance
Click on Connect
Find 'Connect to your instance using its Public DNS'
Copy this link
Go to your VS Code
Open a Terminal in the directory
Open terminal in the directory where the your key is
Paste the link
Write 'yes'
And we connected from our computer to our EC2💪
Connect to your instance (method2)
(We have already created an instance)

Go to AWS console page and copy your puplic IP,

Open your VS Code,

Click on Open a remote window (bottom left),

Click on Open ssh configuration file

Edit config file

TCPKeepAlive yes

ServerAliveInterval 60

Host You can write your name

HostName Your puplic IP

IdentityFile Your pem file path

User ec2-user for Amazon linux

Save and close

Again Click on Open a remote window

Click on connect to host

And continue ...

Use Cloudformation to create an EC2 instance
Go to AWS console page
Create a template on your local machine. Click here for more details of template creating.
At AWS Consol Click on services and search for Cloudformation.
You are at Cloudformation main dashboard
Click on Create Stack
Select "Template is ready" (assuming we created a template above)
Select "Upload a template file" and upload your template (If you have already a template in AWS S3 you can choose Amazon S3 URL)
Click on Next and enter a Stack name
Choose the instance type, and existing key from your account.
Click on Next
Tags are optional, you may or may not add tags in this step
Now you don't need to set 'Configure stack options'
Review and click Create Stack
Create a target group
(Assume we create already two instances)

Go to AWS console page
Click on EC2
Click on Target Groups
Click on Create Target Group
Basic configuration.
Choose a target type    : Instances
Target Groups Name      : Please write a name
Protocol                : HTTP
Port                    : 80
VPC                     : Default
Protocol version        : HTTP1
Health checks
Health check protocol   : HTTP
Health check path       : /
Advance Health check settings.
Port                    : Traffic port
Healthy treshold        : 5
Unhealthy treshold      : 2
Timeout                 : 5 seconds
Interval                : 10 seconds
Succes codes            : 200
Tags
Key                     : Name
Value                   : Please write value
Click on 'next'
Select two instances that is created from Launch Template before and add to them to the target group.
Ports for the selected instances : 80
Click Include as pending below button.
Show that two instances are added to the target group.
Click Create target group button.
